For over 20 years, QL2 has focused on helping companies better understand their competitive
landscape through gathering and analyzing web information. The information that QL2 provides,
helps our customers better understand their competitive position and adjust their pricing
strategy and product offerings in real time. QL2’s customers span across the travel industry
including Airfare, Hotel, Vacation Packages, Online Travel Agencies, Cruise, Rail, Bus, and
Ferry as well as across many retail industries.
This project will focus on QL2’s airfare and car rental data which are incredibly dynamic and
competitive pricing environments which require industry players to have rapid and
comprehensive views of the marketplace. Most of QL2’s airfare and car rental customers are
monitoring prices on a daily, or even several times a day basis. The typical customer is directly
ingesting competitive data provided by QL2 to automatically change prices or highlight gaps in
their itinerary or inventory offerings. Most of the teams we work with in these industries are in
revenue management whose objectives are to maximize the revenue of all flights/rentals. It
requires a balance between maximizing the current price offered while also not selling out fares
or cars to far in advance and thus losing the opportunity to sell generally very high value fares
close to departure/pick up.
As a result many of these teams do not have the bandwidth for as many detailed and
longitudinal analysis of the data in order to impact longer term pricing and inventory decisions.
Additionally working with the scale and complexity of this pricing data is a challenge for many
customers to effectively identify actionable insights.
In both airfare and car rental the inventory are mobile assets that can be moved around to
different locations in order to optimize revenue, but those movements require advanced
planning. The project will focus on individual markets in order to identify market level trends and
markets where trends differ from broader trends.
